Post outage checkup (#125)
BCDevOps/devops-platform-workshops: openshift-201/post-outage-checkup.md

# Post Outage Check Up

## Objectives:

After completing this section, you should know what to do after there is an outage and how to handle common problems that may occur.

## Prerequisites
All resources created in this lab should include your username so you do not clash with other lab participants.  If you set the `$USERNAME` environment variable to your username then you can easily copy/paste the commands below.  Just ensure your username contains only '-', '.' or lowercase alphanumberic characters.

example:
```bash
export USERNAME=jmacdonald
```

## Setup
We will setup a sample application and proceed with what steps should be taken after an outage occurs.

### Create a new application 

> ```bash
>  oc new-app --name crash-app-$USERNAME \
> -i redhat-openjdk18-openshift:1.8 \
>  --context-dir=openshift-201/materials/post-outage-checkup/crash-app \
>  https://github.com/BCDevOps/devops-platform-workshops
> 
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
oc new-app --name crash-app-$USERNAME \
-i redhat-openjdk18-openshift:1.8 \
--context-dir=openshift-201/materials/post-outage-checkup/crash-app \
https://github.com/BCDevOps/devops-platform-workshops
```
```

Reviewer: yea im removing the empty line and extra spaces in the front of each line. But im not sure about the closing ```, it should still be there. But i'd say it's fine to ignore this change!

```

Our pod should eventually get to and stay in the `Running` status.  We can check our logs again and verify it has started successfully

```bash
oc logs crash-app-$USERNAME-c97b5b874-zsz2j
```
<pre>
Starting the Java application using /opt/jboss/container/java/run/run-java.sh ...
...<em>output omitted</em>...
Starting Crash App
...<em>output omitted</em>...
... Started MyApp in 18.206 seconds (JVM running for 23.387)
</pre>

Now let's verify the app is accessible via the route.
```bash
curl http://$MY_HOST/hello

Hello world from Crash App
```

## Checklist
It is a good idea to create a checklist that has specifics for your application. We recommend that you create an issue template in github for your application which details all the specific things that you'll need to check to feel secure that your app is up and running after an outage.

Some other things to verify could include:
* __Database__ - validate the database is running and communication is working to the database.  It is also a good idea to check the database replication
* __CI/CD__ - Run a test pipleine to ensure everything is working as expected

> * __Backups__ - Manually run the recovery test script to make surethat the most recent backup is working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __Backups__ - Manually run the recovery test script to make sure that the most recent backup is working.
```
